[bright music]
[whooshing. crackling]
[deep whooshing]
[zapping]
[subtle eerie music]
[cigarette crackles]
[in German] From the beginning.
[tense rhythmic tones]
Please.
[film projector whirring]
[Naumann]
"The Führer welcomes at its headquarters
Youth Leader Axmann
with a delegation of 20 Hitler Youths.
who have excelled
in their defense of the homeland
and have been awarded with the Iron Cross.
With these 20 boys. the German youth
symbolically appeared before the Führer.
These loyal helpers of our soldiers
and the Volkssturm stand.
brave and fearless. in highest commitment.
-The boys tell about their--"
-Stop!
Naumann. the Führer doesn't tremble.
The people will never see this footage.
We only have this.
The Führer is a shadow of his former self.
-Terrible. but true.
-I decide what's true.
And what's true…
…is what's good for the German people.
Do you finally get it?
Then show what the boys report
to the Führer.
They couldn't.
He had to withdraw immediately.
Take other footage. Naumann!
Take the boy we gave the Iron Cross to.
[cigarette crackles]
-The Führer doesn't look well.
-[Goebbels] Catastrophic.
Nothing left.
Only old ones. And the boys?
They go to their certain death?
What difference does it make?
That's a hero's death.
It's time. Magda.
Get the children.
[subtle eerie music]
Helga noticed.
She asks where we will go
if we lose the war.
There's no other way.
[Naumann] We have the pictures of the boy.
We can show them to you.
[Goebbels]
Go ahead.
[boy on videotape]
When Russian got closer to Lauban.
I volunteered myself
to report to Lauban's combat commander.
[Goebbels]
"If Germany is still alive today.
if Europe. and with it. the Western world.
with its culture and civilization.
has not yet completely sunk
into the vortex of the dark abyss…
…you have him alone to thank for this.
Because he will be
the man of this century."
I'll tell people this on your birthday.
Very good. Doctor.
The Russians will be here soon.
[grunts]
Everyone is urging me to leave Berlin.
But I'm staying.
If I succeed here. then five minutes
to 12:00. I will bring about the decision.
The enemy coalition will be breaking.
It's just a question of whether…
…we're already six feet under by then.
[menacing music]
A devastating mood.
Criticism against the Party is everywhere.
including the Führer.
The Russians will be dealt
a harsh defeat here in Berlin.
If it doesn't end well
and he dies with honor.
then Europe will become Bolshevik.
But he will be a legendary figure
in five years at the latest.
He would be sanctified
by this last great effort.
[panicked chatter]
[muffled chatter]
[Goebbels]
It's all about the decision now.
Let's face it with pride.
The people want role models.
[typewriter clacking]
In 100 years.
a beautiful color film will be shown
about those terrible days
that we are going through here.
Don't you want
to play a part in this film?
Then hang in there!
So that the audience doesn't start booing
when you appear on the screen.
-Hail Hitler!
-[all] Hail Hitler!
[camera clicking]
[Goebbels sighs]
[fire crackling]
[melancholic menacing music]
My diaries and pictures
will shape the image of our time.
But no one will ever know
how I got the people behind the Führer.
I strictly forbid showing techniques
that influence the masses.
This would be disillusionment
of national affairs.
Do you know the name of the English.
or the American propaganda minister.
or even Stalin's?
[man]
No.
But Joseph Goebbels?
Everyone knows him.
[music intensifies]
My wife. my children and I…
We will set an example for posterity
of what it means to be faithful
until death and beyond.
I created the Führer myth.
[siren blaring]
With my last big enactment.
we will be a part of it.
[music concludes]
[silence]
[tense tone]
-[knock on door]
-[door opens]
[suspenseful music]
[Goebbels sips]
[Hitler] Germany has become one again.
one people. inseparably connected.
In this hour. the German people in Austria
have elevated and confessed
their being German.
A rejoicing that the world may yet…
[Goebbels] The Führer enters Vienna
like a triumphant.
Indescribable.
And now the victory is complete.
It's a historic hour. Hanke.
We now need pictures that show
how the Führer is welcomed
with huge applause in Vienna.
Yes. Doctor. Whatever it takes.
The flyers have been distributed.
130 million in all.
Our materials were in Vienna on time.
On the special trains with our followers.
we didn't have to help much.
The people are thrilled.
And our people teach the Jews manners.
Brushing the streets with toothbrushes.
-Rubbing. they call it.
-[chortles]
That's a real Viennese slur.
Himmler reports 20.000 arrests
and 100 deaths.
Serves the Jews right.
But we don't say anything
about it in the news.
We're as truthful as it's useful.
Propaganda is an art like painting.
It's not the image
that comes closest to reality
that has the greatest value.
No. it's the one
that triggers the greatest emotions.
We create the images that will last.
[dramatic music]
As the Führer and Chancellor
of the German nation and Reich.
I hereby declare before German history
the entry of my homeland
into the German Reich.
[crowd shouting]
Sit down!
Gentlemen.
tomorrow the Führer will be given
a welcome in the capital of the Reich
that will surpass
anything that has gone before.
The propaganda troops will have to return
to Berlin from Vienna immediately.
We need new festive and banner materials.
Businesses close. schools take a day off.
everyone must take to the streets.
The police will lead the people
to their assigned sections.
We'll make sure
that there are no troublemakers.
Well done. Helldorf!
The SA has also promised 25.000 men.
ensuring order and decorating streets.
We'll work through the night
to make sure everything's ready tomorrow.
My instruction for the press:
"Triumphant entry of the Führer
into the capital
of the Great German Reich."
This will be communicated today
via newspapers and loudspeakers.
[suspenseful music]
"People of Berlin.
no one must be absent
from the streets when the Führer arrives."
[continues over radio]
Berliners. close the shops and businesses!
No apartment. no building.
no business without banners and flags.
We want to greet and cheer the Führer
in all of our deep gratitude.
We all. of course.
Long live Adolf Hitler!
Long live our people and the Reich!
Look at that!
We've become true masters
of mass domination.
I've arrested possible troublemakers.
And we'll give the Jews a thrashing.
We'll do it all in the follow-up.
And properly.
[horn honks]
Let's go. Go. go. go!
I told you to pay attention to my signal.
-I explained it to you in detail.
-Hail Hitler. Doctor.
See. we leave nothing to chance.
Very well. You've learned.
We need some time. But we'll get it done.
Upon arrival.
we let out a threefold "Hail victory!"
And then the anthem.
It has to look spontaneous.
Then we wait and let the people sing.
"We won't go home
until the Führer speaks."
[chuckles]
We will show a jubilant city
with songs from the heart
of the German people.
♪ Can love be a sin? ♪
♪ Can no one know when you kiss? ♪
♪ When you forget
everything in happiness ♪
♪ Can it really be a sin ♪
♪ If you only think
about one guy all the time? ♪
♪ Once you give him everything
for happiness? ♪
[indistinct chatter]
You can't play marching music
all the time. even if the party wants so.
We'll demonstrate
that our grandparents' waltz
is not the end of the story.
and everything else is evil.
♪ Love cannot be a sin! ♪
-Listen. this music is touching my heart.
-Not just right now.
In propaganda. we are allowed
to be generous in an erotic sense.
In return. we strike
against political jokes.
My esteemed artists.
[stage singer]
♪ Sadly. we often think about it ♪
To the Führer. the greatest of artists.
To our Führer.
♪ In my day. there was no such thing… ♪
We're counting on you.
Dear Paula Wessely.
You will vote in favor
of the annexation of your homeland.
You are all role models. even in private.
A Jewish woman as a wife
is no longer an easy thing to do.
My dear Gottschalk.
great challenges are ahead of us.
-Here's to German art!
-And to our propaganda minister.
-Bravo.
-Thank you all.
A good government cannot exist
without propaganda. and vice versa.
[all laugh]
I'm telling you. gentlemen.
we are all propagandists.
In every moment
in which we try to conquer a woman.
[soft chuckle]
We're stupid when we boast
and smart when we flatter.
Like a propagandist. we have an intention.
but it must be so virtuously concealed
that this intention fulfils you
without you realizing it.
Isn't that right. ladies?
[stage singer]
♪ I will never regret what I did ♪
♪ That it was done out of love ♪
[woman] You'll have to forgive me.
That's what we're here for.
[Goebbels] I'll be driving here
with the Führer tomorrow.
All of Berlin is working
according to my plans.
[song continues]
There's nothing
I can do about it. Liduschka.
You trigger the most beautiful feeling
I've ever experienced.
Let's be reasonable. Joseph.
You have a wife and sweet children.
It'll hurt you. It'll hurt me. too.
Don't think Magda
will put up with that. right?
But I can't be reasonable.
A beautiful woman
is like a sailing ship on the vast sea.
All the winds fall on her
and take her somewhere.
And when a storm comes. it ends in a huge.
inescapable hurricane.
[singer]
♪ Love can't be a sin ♪
♪ But if it was. I wouldn't care ♪
♪ I'd rather be sinful ♪
♪ Than be without love ♪
[clattering outside]
Angel…
…the Führer makes us so happy.
I had the children wake up for you.
Helga. Hilde. Helmut.
say good evening to Daddy.
-Good evening. dear Daddy.
-Good evening. dear children.
You are about to witness
a great hour in history.
Your uncle Führer's homeland
is back in the Reich.
Tomorrow. you'll attend his event.
-Any news?
-[Goebbels] Yes. He's overjoyed.
My call has worked wonders in Berlin.
You heard me in the radio.
the city is unrecognizable.
[airplane engine roaring]
[male reporter]
On his return from Vienna.
the Führer was welcomed
by Berliners with never-ending cheers.
AIRPORT TEMPELHOF 2KM
Millions line the road from
Tempelhof Airport to the Reich Chancellery
in order to thank the creator
of Greater Germany for his historic deed.
The Führer will go down in history
as the greatest German.
You can hear the enthusiasm everywhere.
Everything is going according to my plan.
Every detail.
every minute is determined by me.
[tense music]
[crowd cheering]
[applause]
Children. come.
Thank you. thank you.
But you have grown up. [chuckles]
My Führer. we thank you.
This is the most moving hour of my life.
My dear Magda. I am pleased.
-[Magda breathing heavily]
-[muffled crowd chanting]
[crowd cheering]
GERMAN-AUSTRIANS THANK THE FÜHRER
My sorcerer has worked his magic again.
[cheerful piano music]
♪ If I were a ray of sunshine
high upon the bow of the sky ♪
♪ I would come down in secret ♪
♪ Down to you ♪
♪ Down into the meadows and valleys
into your window-- ♪
-[birds chirping]
-Are these nightingales?
Now. in April?
With you on a night like this.
how am I supposed to remember
which season it is. or even which month?
I not only had this song composed for you…
…I want a movie about our love.
I'm sure you've heard a lot about me.
But I swear to you.
I've never loved a woman
as much as I love you.
We can't do that.
What if the Führer finds out about us?
[both chuckle]
He's got his own little secret
at the Berghof.
Fräulein Braun is always with him.
But no one is supposed to know.
Tell me more about him.
I admire him.
He has a superhuman inner strength
and a deep faith in his mission.
He is more devout than I am.
He's like a father to me.
But you can't trust his surroundings.
Gentlemen. welcome.
To my right. I would ask
my general field marshal.
[Goebbels] The Führer speaks very highly
of Göring. an old fighter.
He was wounded in the field
and has been taking morphine ever since.
-[Hitler] Back in splendid uniform today.
-My Führer.
-He is a pug and likes baroque clothes.
-[laughs]
Gentlemen. when everyone
is wearing their stars and medals.
the Führer stands out
by simply not doing so.
[all chuckle]
We actors appreciate Göring
because he supports Gründgens
as artistic director.
-He gives us artists freedom.
-Liduschka.
This entire Gründgens scene
is completely gay.
-Hm.
-I don't understand Göring.
[soft tense music]
That makes my fingers tingle.
Opposite me. I would like to call
the Reichsführer of the SS.
-My loyal Heinrich.
-My Führer.
For me. Himmler is rather eerie with
his secret service and the SS fortress.
He's spreading Germanic nonsense.
And how are your excavations going?
Who are you digging up next?
My research shows
the superiority of the Aryan race.
It's in the best interest
of our movement. Doctor.
I just hope your latest findings
just don't prove
that we were still throwing stone darts
sitting around an open fire.
when Rome was already
at a high level of civilization.
Himmler is a Munich philistine.
Very stubborn.
Just like Rosenberg.
trying to be the Reich's philosopher.
Heinrich Himmler.
our Reichsleiter Rosenberg.
If it were up to him.
I'd have to have men in uniform
marching through my films all the time.
In the end. only Widukind. Henry the Lion
and Rosenberg remain of our history.
Much more dangerous is Ribbentrop.
[Hitler]
My foreign minister. to the right.
[Goebbels]
A typical low-key. would-be aristocrat.
He confuses politics with champagne trade.
where it's always
about ripping someone off.
A megalomaniac loser.
The Führer overestimates him.
The others are completely harmless.
Speer is an artist.
like the Führer himself.
He commissioned him
with the redesign of Berlin.
Bormann is becoming more
and more of a gray eminence.
-A real Nazi.
-[Hitler] My dear Speer. right here.
And you. my dear Bormann. next to him.
so you can discuss
your building activities right away.
As you know.
Bormann is drilling the Obersalzberg.
[all laugh]
Facing him. our national press chief.
[Goebbels]
Dietrich is a little dwarf.
And a bit of a troublemaker.
Your press release on the annexation
was very witty.
Thank you. My best ideas
come in the bathtub.
Then take more baths.
Dr. Dietrich. [chortles]
[all chuckle]
And in the seat next to me.
our Doctor Goebbels.
[Goebbels]
He knows what he has in me.
He trusts me with his most intimate plans.
[Hitler]
The Czech Republic…
…comes first.
rigorously and at the next opportunity.
Then…
…the Baltic.
And a piece of Alsace Lorraine.
France shall sink deeper into its crisis.
Those are generous and constructive ideas.
[inhales sharply]
You know. the people in my family
don't live to be old.
That's why I'd rather fight a war
when I'm 50 than 60 years old.
What do you mean?
-People are not in favor of war.
-We must solve our problems with violence.
Every generation must experience a war.
There he is. Where is the mouse?
Where's the mouse?
Where is it? Well. where is it?
[video camera whirring]
Don't film me with your two dogs.
-It looks ridiculous.
-They are much sweeter than your giant.
You didn't hear that. yes. look.
[knock on door]
Mrs. Goebbels has arrived.
[Eva]
Yes. Let the lady in and serve the food.
Where's my Stasi? You're so hilarious.
[Hitler]
My dear Magda.
-Olympus opens when I see you.
-[laughs]
You're a charmer.
I look really worn out.
But you look good in that new suit.
-Yes?
-I'm glad you listened to me.
How are you?
-[sighing] I'm fine.
-How is our young comrade?
I hope you took my advice
-and quit smoking.
-[exhales]
-I'm doing my best.
-You still smoke?
Because of people like you.
I'm going to have skulls printed
on cigarette packs
-or ban smoking.
-[laughs]
Smoking is just as harmful
as the animal carcasses you enjoy.
and that I can't talk you out of.
But I have to admit…
…none of this affects your beauty.
[soft music plays on phonograph]
You mustn't forbid all the joie de vivre.
People owe their rescue
to the fact I left these poisons behind.
Or else I would have perished
from all this worry.
Yes. the danger of war.
It's all Joseph talks about
when he has time for us.
A man…
…is a slave to his duty.
Joseph says the people are not ready.
War will come… [exhales]
and it will come quickly.
I'm getting old.
I need glasses to read.
And I'm the only one
capable of fighting this war.
[cutlery clattering]
You know exactly what's best for Germany.
But we have so much to lose.
Only a woman can talk like that.
You know how I think.
[music intensifies]
I'm the first soldier of the Reich
and I will win…
…or I won't live to see the end.
-[applauding]
-[ambient music playing]
The premiere of the Olympia movie
will be a celebration of peace.
Leni Riefenstahl created an excellent film
in the service of our cause.
Thank you.
Mrs. Riefenstahl?
Leni Riefenstahl.
the Führer is watching your film today.
-What does that mean for you?
-It's a great honor.
The creator of Great Germany
is its most artistic person…
She always knows exactly what to say.
Look. our wonderful artists.
Without us. they'd be nothing.
Here comes Gottschalk.
He is a German Clark Gable
and falls for the sexual sophistication
of this Jewish bitch.
-[reporter] Thank you. Mrs. Riefenstahl.
-I'll do something about this.
An epochal work enters the public eye.
The film testifies to the resurrected
power of the new Germany
as a grand framework
for the Olympic Games.
Its spirit and its attitude
illuminates the love of freedom
of the German people and their Führer
in the hearts of all people.
[orchestral music playing]
[quietly] Riefenstahl cost a lot of money.
She's a wife. not a man.
But she's a clever thing.
-[starting pistol shot]
-[crowd shouting]
[muted]
[commentator] Meters and meters
and Germany's first runner. Emmy Albus.
overtakes the runners from Holland
and Hannah Brandt
puts Germany in the lead.
-First change. Pass the baton!
-[whispers]
Germany loses the baton!
First America.
Second England.
Third Canada.
-[baby crying]
-[Goebbels] Ooh.
How is little Hertha?
Does she have to cry so much
because Daddy has no time?
He has to bring
Sudeten Germans into the Reich.
Hm? Little Hertha.
My angel.
I have a surprise for you.
Everything you see
is ours now.
Our neighbor. the Jew Goldschmidt.
had to give it away at a bargain.
You should have seen the look on his face
when he heard who the buyer was.
I know everything.
You're cheating on me with that Czech.
First all those women.
and now you're making a mockery of me.
Raging against Slavs.
and then you sleep with that Czech whore?
You're not betraying me and the people.
What kind of person are you?
-It's not what you think. Magda.
-[scoffs]
Miss Baarová and I. we love each other.
[birds chirping]
What are you saying?
I won't put up with this.
I'm seeing the Führer.
[melancholic piano music]
-Magda.
-[exhales sharply]
I want to make you an offer.
I don't want a divorce.
You're the mother of my children
and the woman by my side.
But after all these years.
I have to have a girlfriend.
[Magda breathing heavily]
I want…
…to give you this ring…
…as a token of our agreement.
You'll always be my old lady.
[scoffs]
But Lida is part of the family now.
As my second wife.
With the escalating conflict
with the Czech Republic.
people fall into a psychosis.
People are panicking.
-That's because of your propaganda.
-[Goebbels] It has served its purpose.
Now everyone knows what a pathetic state
the Czech Republic is
and that Sudetenland is part of the Reich.
We achieve all goals
with agitation and threats.
Chamberlain may give us Sudetenland.
but we have to demand
the entire Czech Republic.
The English and the French
are not ready for war.
Ribbentrop is right.
The most radical solution is the best.
Our deployment is complete.
The mobilization will be done in a flash.
I will crush the entire Czech Republic.
-[vehicles moving past]
-I'm just afraid that at the last moment.
some stupid emotional acrobat
will get in the way with a mediation.
-Troops are marching past.
-Hmm.
[eerie tone builds]
[Hitler clears throat]
[faint applause]
That's your responsibility.
You should have organized the cheering.
They're not fulfilling their duties.
It's an impudence to the Führer.
[tense music]
That's the mood among the people.
There's a fear of war.
[Goebbels]
We probably have the option
to take the Sudetendeutsch
territory peacefully
and continue to arm ourselves.
This is the great victory
that the Führer can now achieve.
[tense tone]
[radio announcer] Adolf Hitler called
Mussolini. Daladier. and Chamberlain
to Munich for a final talk
that would bring freedom
to the Sudeten Germans.
Prime Minister Chamberlain
was thanked by many Munich residents.
who took him to the airfield.
French Prime Minister Daladier
was celebrated on his departure. too.
-[crowd cheering]
-[eerie music]
[Goebbels]
Everything breathes a sigh of relief.
Peace is on everyone's lips.
The Führer has achieved great merit.
Everyone cheers for peace.
Europe celebrates you. my Führer.
I don't care.
It doesn't matter if people hate me.
If only they fear me.
we could have crushed
the whole Czech Republic.
I'm furious.
We got the Sudetenland without war.
We could have had much more.
London and Paris
would never have intervened.
And now our people are cheering
to Chamberlain and Daladier for peace.
Those weaklings!
My resolve is unwavering.
I will destroy the Czech people.
I want this dead. amorphous state gone.
and then I'm going to storm Poland.
Next time. I'll act so fast the old hags
won't be able to talk me down.
-I won't tolerate such a mess.
-[Göring] Are the people behind us?
The common people never want war.
but it's easy to get them to join in.
Tell them they're under attack.
-This method works everywhere.
-That's what we do.
But we've been talking
about peace for years.
Not that easy to change the tone.
It's your duty to make sure
the people follow their Führer.
even into war.
[Himmler] Instead of stirring up
the people's war spirit.
our propaganda minister
chases after women.
I've always been distant
with the type of Goebbels.
-but I held back--
-[Hitler] I know.
He's ruthless with his women.
But he's a good propagandist.
He will get the people ready for war.
If he can find the time
with all his busywork.
We'll lose our credibility because of him.
We used to disdain Jewish directors
for their sexuality.
Dr. Goebbels does the same.
Everyone speaks ill of him.
from Gauleiter to washerwoman.
Our revolution has an abscess
that attacks the healthy blood.
Sexual compulsion of a superior
towards female employees means prison.
The doctor has committed
dozens of such offenses.
Here are the statements of the women.
He is a heavy moral burden
for National Socialism.
[cheerful piano music playing]
Nightingales?
Now. in April? Your Royal Highness…
[film project whirring]
With you here on a night like this.
how can I remember
the season or even the month?
Your Royal Highness…
Promise me?
-[woman] My…
-[man] Me too. a Prince.
Should I say "Princess"?
♪ Here is a ray of sunshine ♪
♪ Far-off arc of the sky that makes me ♪
♪ Shine down on you ♪
♪ Through valleys and meadows ♪
-♪ And gazing in your window… ♪
-[door bangs shut]
[exhales]
[sighs]
What do you want?
♪ I want to be a ray in the distant sky… ♪
He has promised Baarová a marriage.
I have two letters here.
She writes.
"Is it still okay if I wait for you?"
And he replies. "Yes."
underlined three times with his green pen.
[soft tense music]
You're taking advantage of women.
Let the ambassador wait
until you finish your escapades.
You're allowing that the people
are not ready for war.
Magda came to see me. She was crying.
You're cheating on your wife
with a Czech woman. of all people.
Magda was exaggerating.
She is on the edge
due to all the childbirths.
Helldorf can attest to that.
Let him in.
-[door opens]
-[footsteps]
Hail Hitler!
What do you say. Helldorf?
My Führer.
the minister is the victim
of a rival scheme.
[Hitler]
Don't bother.
I can't afford a scandal anyway.
After the Minister of War married a whore
and the Commander-in-Chief is a gay man.
-You handled that brilliantly--
-Stop. Helldorf!
The Goebbels
are the Reich's poster family.
You know perfectly well the effect
a divorce would have on the people.
especially now.
This thing with the little Czech…
-…it's nothing that can't be solved.
-My Führer. I love Miss Baarová.
-I'm going to marry her.
-Christ. sacrament! I'm planning a war!
And my propaganda minister is in love.
[Goebbels] I know I can no longer
be minister under these circumstances.
I ask you to relieve me of my duties.
Be reasonable.
I would feel betrayed.
You know what happens to traitors.
Our people are facing
their biggest confrontation.
We will create an empire
the world has never seen.
You could attain eternal glory
as a prophet of the Führer.
Give me your word of honor.
you won't see her again.
I will always be loyal to you…
…but this is a private matter.
When you make history.
you can't have private matters.
[soft tense tone]
Show the people you're a happy family
and give me your word of honor.
-My Führer--
-I need you for my mission.
Your word of honor.
Krause.
Call Magda.
-[door opens]
-[footsteps]
Dear Magda…
…I'm pleased to inform you
that your husband has agreed.
Miss Baarová will never make another film.
and he will never see her again.
[melancholic piano music]
[exhales]
And I insist on a divorce.
-[Hitler] I can't grant that wish.
-This is a court that decides.
[Hitler]
Above the court is the Führer.
A divorce could trigger
a government crisis.
You'll stay married.
We'll arrange a grace period.
After that. we'll see.
I've already prepared the contract.
What are we. individuals.
compared to the fate of the people?
And the children?
When you have
beautiful children like yours.
you can't be separated.
The best part is that.
during the grace period.
you will live completely ascetically.
You. Doctor. like a monk.
And you. Magda. live like a nun.
I've been doing this for a long time.
[pen scribbling]
I suggest we take a photo.
[Goebbels] My conversation with the Führer
shakes me to the core.
Life is so hard and so cruel.
I have a very sad phone call to make.
Can only sleep with strong medicine.
-[tense music]
-[film projector whirring]
And now my new life begins…
-[man] This whore has nothing to do here.
-…a hard. cruel. duty-bound life.
Get out!
-[Goebbels] The youth is now at an end.
-[man] Get out. you whore!
Get out. you whore!
[sighs]
It's the worst time of my life.
I've sunk to the bottom.
and my opponents are on top.
On my birthday.
the Führer sent me
nothing but a frosty telegram.
No dog wants to live like this.
[Hanke]
Perhaps you'll be happy to hear
that the anger
against the Jews is growing.
They're blaming them
for the antiwar sentiment.
At least some good news.
We have to launch
a full-scale rampage now.
That would heat up the mood
and please the Führer.
And then… the propaganda
could be converted to war.
In Paris. a 17-year-old Jew
shot diplomat Ernst vom Rath.
[foreboding music]
Why didn't you say so straight away?
Let's talk straight now!
I'll report this to the press right away.
This assassination must have
the worst consequences for the Jews.
[tense tone]
[liquid pours]
[men chattering]
I'm very glad
you have come to your senses.
No one must know that I am in favor
of today's action in exactly this way.
The Jews need
to feel the wrath of the people.
We already organized demonstrations.
The messenger will bring
news of Rath's death.
Then we'll start.
[door shuts]
My Führer…
-[whispering]
-[chatter dies]
[gloomy tone]
[inhales sharply]
[chair slides]
We've just received the sad news
that our legation council
Ernst vom Rath is dead.
Shot… by a Jew.
This cowardly murder
will cost the Jews dearly!
In the future. they will think twice
before simply shooting down
German diplomats.
The party will not appear externally
as the author of this.
Among us are members
of the shock squad "Adolf Hitler."
They went ahead
during the fighting period.
They know what to do.
The hour has struck for the Jews!
-[applause]
-[eerie dramatic music]
-Hail SS-Men!
-[men] Hail Hitler!
[fire crackling]
[thud]
[Göring]
Doctor is out of his mind.
I would have preferred
he had just 200 Jews beaten to death.
rather than destroy such values.
Who pays for this?
[Hitler] Let the Jews pay
for the damage themselves.
The insurers pay nothing.
We'll disown Jewish businesses.
Make the preparations.
I will impose a penalty on the Jews
of one billion reichsmarks
for their heinous crimes.
Those bastards won't dare to kill again.
I don't want to be a Jew in Germany.
That's right. Thank you.
I suggest we stop
this before it gets out of hand.
We won't say anything about it
in the news. In the press. very little.
[Hitler]
Good thing it is firmly in our hands.
I will now inform the representatives
that we are going to sound pacifist.
[all]
Hail Hitler!
Circumstances…
…forced me…
…for decades to talk about peace.
It was the only way I could. step by step.
achieve freedom for the German people.
Such peace propaganda
also has its questionable side.
As the perception had been established.
we wanted to preserve peace at all costs.
But this misconception
must now be rectified.
-[eerie music]
-[pens scribbling]
So I have begun to make it
clear to the German people…
…that there are things…
…that must be enforced by violence.
This line of propaganda
must be continued and reinforced.
[applause]
"To the mother of the nation.
the image of the German woman.
Immersed in devotion I stand.
In your blue eyes. your rich soul I see."
[knock on door]
Yes?
The doctor is here.
[door closes]
[door opens and closes]
[door opens]
It's been agreed
I must give a visitation permit.
I know everything.
Helldorf told me.
Hanke. of all people. is the most
treacherous traitor I've ever been around.
It's sad to have your faith
in humanity taken away.
He treats me good. unlike you.
I'm the one who got you
out of your Jewish clique.
You were with the top Zionist.
and I swept it all under the rug.
And you got your doctorate from the Jew.
joined the Socialists.
and applied as a correspondent
in American newspapers.
You're the most depraved opportunist.
[inhales sharply]
Here's… an order from the Führer.
Hanke is to be transferred
to the Wehrmacht.
[inhales sharply]
Here's a list of people
who can't enter the house anymore.
Also an order from the Führer.
Your beloved stepfather.
the Jew Friedländer.
made his living as a waiter.
He was taken to Buchenwald and died.
[melancholic piano music]
He was always kind to me.
Haven't seen him since the rise to power.
I'm on the Führer's side.
Magda. please. come to your senses.
We have no choice but to get along.
The propaganda will incite against Poland.
If no miracle happens.
we'll soon be at war.
The Führer needs us.
I know. We promised the Führer.
It's our duty.
Gentlemen. I've asked you here
in civilian clothing…
[footsteps]
…to protect the absolute
secrecy of this meeting.
It was clear that sooner or later.
it would have to come
to a military conflict with Poland.
Our economic situation is such…
…that we will last for a few more years.
We have to act.
Our opponents are little worms.
The West has placed
its hopes on the enmity
between Russia and Germany.
But now. my foreign minister
is going to Moscow.
Gentlemen. I will sign
a non-aggression pact
with the Soviet Union.
Then Poland will be where I want it to be.
I have given the order that the objective
of war is not to reach certain lines.
but to physically destroy the enemy.
I will have anyone tortured
who speaks one word of criticism.
[tense music]
I have prepared my Totenkopf units
to mercilessly send any man.
woman. and child of Polish descent
to their deaths.
It's the only way to gain the habitat…
…that we need.
[door opens]
My Führer. what a brilliant move.
You surprised even me.
The non-aggression pact with Stalin
will be a world sensation.
Thank you. Doctor.
I will divide Eastern Europe with Stalin.
[inhales]
About time Ribbentrop called.
-Have a seat.
-Thank you.
I've instructed the press… [exhales]
…that the issue of Bolshevism
is not so important now.
[exhales] We get them attuned to the pact.
For years we have gone all out
in the anti-Bolshevik propaganda.
Now we're in trouble
and are eating flies like the devil.
-Keep the people.
-I will.
But the question is.
how will the West react?
[inhales sharply]
I don't think London
wants a war right now.
Paris is chickening out.
I've always played
across the board in life.
-[knock on door]
-[door opens]
The Foreign Minister. from Moscow.
Yes.
-[static]
-[muffled speech]
[inhales sharply]
"Non-aggression pact for ten years."
he says.
In these hours. we are writing history.
[tense tone]
-[explosion]
-[Hitler on recording] Since 5.45 a.m..
we have been firing back.
[crowd shouting]
And from now on.
we will retaliate with a bomb for a bomb.
[crowd shouting]
[thud]
Gentlemen. sit down!
-We are at war.
-[pens scribbling]
News policy… in war.
That is a means of war.
It is being used to wage war.
not to give out information.
Eavesdropping on enemy stations
will be punished.
Passing on enemy information…
…is punishable by death.
The death sentences
will be announced in the press.
We put on an infernal concert.
always plotting. always agitating.
Good.
What is there to report?
Polish propaganda claims
that we've carried out liquidations.
Poland has established
a proper factory of lies.
That won't do them any good.
There have been attacks
on Germans as well.
There were even deaths in Bromberg.
That's good.
Build that up.
Increase the number of victims tenfold
and repeat it over and over again.
The simpler and more primitive.
the more effective.
Invent catchphrases.
"Blood Sunday of Bromberg."
That's got a ring to it.
[radio announcer]
This is where the murderers
are brought out of their hiding places.
They committed savage acts
of bloodshed against defenseless Germans
in the Blood Night of Bromberg.
They will be met
with martial law immediately.
[Goebbels]
We hammer it as long as it takes
until everyone knows
that Poles commit atrocities.
It's only when the intelligence says.
"We can't hear it anymore"…
…that the lumberjack
in Bad Aibling notices and says.
"Oh? I've never heard anything like that."
[all laugh]
It's like the Catholic church.
no one would say to the priest.
"Father. you preached the same thing
just last Sunday."
No. Day in. day out.
year after year. the same thing.
No priest would think
of starting liturgy from the back.
just to offer something new.
[all laugh]
[guns cocking]
[gunshots]
[gunshot]
To The Führer.
My foreign minister. to my right.
The doctor across from me.
Please… be seated.
I've issued amnesty for all those
who broke the law out of desperation
over the horrors committed by Poland.
Poles are more animals than people.
That's why our units
are taking radically liquidating
the Polish leadership and the Jews.
Our propaganda about Polish atrocities
has laid the groundwork for this.
If your propaganda is
as good as you say it is.
the question must be allowed
why. despite the great victory
over Poland.
is there still no real enthusiasm for war?
People cheer for victory.
but they fear the war's expansion.
[Rosenberg] All the more reason
for the propaganda to reach the people.
But what does the doctor say?
Entertainment is important. too.
[chuckles]
Propaganda must be close to the people.
doctrines do not help at all.
Or do you honestly believe
that after the battle.
soldiers go for your
20th-century myth? [chortles]
But we can't go on like this.
The newsreel runs
in 3000 theaters per week.
but in a mindless manner.
Because there's no propagandist at work.
We only get boring material.
That's because of the military drill.
It inhibits any form of creativity.
I mean. we have great artists
in German filmmaking.
Not everyone can withstand
the pressure of war.
You mean Leni Riefenstahl?
She was there when Jews were shot.
It took a toll on her.
But. of course.
she remains our poster child
as the most famous director in the world.
She was at my victory parade in Warsaw.
and now she's making new films.
Doctor. great things are happening
for the mobilization of the people.
but the German film does not take notice.
That's your responsibility.
-But we do have good national films.
-Patriotic in general!
But not national socialist ones!
Our film hasn't dared to touch
the Bolshevik Jewish people yet.
[soft tense music]
[Goebbels]
The Führer is harsh in his criticism.
I don't think it's entirely justified.
but he has every right to do so.
because he's a genius.
Take 29/10.
[video camera whirring]
And then you say. "Happy birthday. Daddy."
Happy birthday. Daddy.
What's Rühmann doing with the kids?
It's a surprise…
…that my sweetie can't know about.
Okay. [speaking inaudibly]
[door shuts]
My wonderful children.
If the Jews win the war.
there will be no future for them.
We won't let it go that far. will we?
Sit down. please. [inhales sharply]
Hippler… [exhales]
…is going to make
a documentary about Judaism.
And you. Harlan. will turn the whole thing
into a motion picture with your Jud Süß.
Let's penetrate the hearts of millions
with love. eroticism. suspense.
How do you like the script?
[lighter clicks]
It's unappetizing.
I must decline it for artistic reasons.
[chuckles] Just write a new one.
Hire the best actors.
Your wife must be in it. too.
-My wife is pregnant.
-I pay the nurse. [chuckles]
We all do our duty.
I have five children.
and when the war started.
I trained to be a Red Cross nurse.
My son Harald
from my first marriage is a Quandt.
He's volunteered to join the paratroopers.
I have already asked actors.
They're hesitant.
My husband will give instructions
not to use the word
"anti-Semitic" in reviews.
And he'll announce that the actors
in the Jewish roles are not Jewish.
-Don't worry.
-[Goebbels] That's not their point.
They're worried
about ruining their careers
in Hollywood with the Jewish films.
Harlan.
-I've always promoted you.
-Yes.
We're giving our artists
liberties that we don't take.
You were allowed
to marry a young Swedish girl.
It's always nice to become famous
with National Socialism
and to be paid a lot of money.
But if National Socialism wants something
from its artists. they all say no.
Gottschalk. for example… [scoffs]
…simply refuses to divorce his Jew wife.
You can't do that.
You have to understand.
National Socialism is
at war with its enemies.
You and I are both soldiers.
We know very well
what happens to a soldier
who dares to disobey an order.
[tense tone]
[crowd shouting]
-[camera whirring]
-[door opens]
Who may I welcome
to the Reich Chancellery today?
-It's a pleasure.
-Hail Hitler. Fräulein Braun.
It's a pleasure to see you.
I'm so excited.
The Führer wants me here for his big day.
He's so proud that we defeated France.
It wasn't easy to get me in here secretly.
[chuckles] You're competing
with our newsreel.
Today. you can film anything you want.
The enthusiasm is genuine.
Bright faces everywhere.
Huge quantities of fresh flowers
have to be strewn
on the streets at short notice.
All of Berlin's gardeners are committed.
In the front rows. I've placed
only young. slim. good-looking people.
from the HJ and the BDM.
[vehicles passing by]
Oh! Just this minute. the Führer arrives.
Oh! I can't miss this.
[crowd cheering]
[video camera whirring]
[quietly] Today. Fräulein Braun looks
terribly insignificant. again.
Please. Magda. The Führer will be
here soon and go up to the balcony.
[door opens]
Eva! Magda!
I'm so happy that you are here
in my happiest hour.
Everyone's cheering for you.
[crowd cheering]
[Hitler]
Very good. And now the anti-Semitic films.
-Here we see the Jews moving into a city.
-[song playing in movie]
Harlan has made an anti-Semitic film
as we could only wish for.
Hundreds of Jews move into the city.
-The population is in turmoil.
-Like locusts. they are over our land…
At the Venice Film Festival.
Jud Süß was a sensational success.
The press is thrilled.
Here.
The Italian film critic
Michelangelo Antonioni writes.
"If this is propaganda.
we welcome propaganda."
Hidden in the movie.
our message is even more effective.
Very good.
But now show me The Eternal Jew.
You know how important
this movie is to me.
[deep breath]
Good.
Hippler! Play your movie.
Yes. Reichsminister.
The Eternal Jew?
And action.
[tense music playing on movie]
"Where rats appear.
they bring destruction into the country.
They are cunning. cowardly.
and usually appear in great numbers.
Not unlike the Jews among men."
Here we have Eastern Jews
cross-faded into assimilated Jews.
Some of them. we had to sort out.
because they didn't look Jewish enough.
"These physiognomies
disprove the liberalist theory
of equality in all man.
Beard. cap and caftan
mark the East Jew for all.
When he takes them off.
only sharp-eyed people
can recognize his racial heritage."
Slaughtering?
Where are the animal slaughters?
It's important.
Those poor animals need protection.
-Obviously.
-My Führer. Again. we had to help.
We allowed the traditional Jewish
slaughtering for the filming.
and depicted the Jews
in all their depravity.
I'd like to put a text in front of it.
that recommends more sensitive people
not to watch the sequence.
Let's see the pictures.
I've written a text about it.
Thank you. my Führer.
[orchestral music]
SENSITIVE PERSONS ARE ADVISED
TO NOT LOOK AT THE FOLLOWING
"Jewish law books
have no sense of considerations
that stem from the Germanic respect
and love for animals.
These images reveal the character
of a race that hides its blunt rawness--"
…under the cloak of devout religion.
[knock on door]
[door opens]
The Führer has come to visit.
He congratulates on the little Heide.
What a nice surprise. [chuckles]
-[baby coos]
-[shushes]
[quietly] Welcome. Doctor.
You're a lucky man.
She is the spitting image of her mother.
A real child of reconciliation.
[Hitler grunts]
Your visit to little Heide
is an honor. my Führer.
So.
[baby coos]
Come. Doctor.
I have something important to tell you.
[door closes]
I've decided to attack Russia.
But if we do.
we'll be caught in a two-front war.
-[grunts]
-We always tried to avoid that.
But it has to be.
Stalin wants to stay out of it
until Europe is bled dry.
and then bolshevize the continent.
A war with him is inevitable.
Then we'll have our backs against England.
Habitat in the East
and extermination of the Jews.
that was always my goal.
[cutlery clatters]
It will be an incredible feat of strength
for our propaganda.
Yes.
I understand.
But a pact with Stalin
has always been a break with my views.
Now I'm free of this anguish of my soul.
We've always fought the red pigs.
Now we'll destroy them.
We'll prepare an attack in secret.
The people must not find out.
We will tell the soldiers
they are maneuvers.
Only at the moment of the attack.
you will read my proclamation
on the radio.
Bolshevism will collapse.
The operation takes no longer than…
four months.
[chuckles slightly. inhales]
I've already come up with an idea
for a fanfare
about our victories.
Liszt's "Les Préludes."
[plays a gentle melody on the piano]
[stops playing]
Add a few more bars
of Horst Wessel's song.
Comrades. Red Front and Reaction
shot in revenge
for our comrades
who were murdered by Communists.
[continues playing the piano]
[tense piano music]
[static]
[radio announcer] The Reich's Ministry
of Public Information and Propaganda.
Reichsminister Dr. Goebbels
reads the Führer's proclamation.
It reveals for the first time
in front of the whole world
the conspiracy of London and Moscow
against Germany.
"German people.
at this very moment.
a formation takes place…"
[narrating]
The new fanfare is heard.
I will read the Führer's proclamation
on all channels to the German people.
What a great and wonderful time
for an empire to be born.
I feel so free.
Then I go to Schwanenwerder.
The sun is already
big and beautiful in the sky.
The birds are chirping
in the garden outside.
I fall into bed and sleep for two hours.
a deep and healthy sleep.
[piano music concludes]
[birds chirping]
Hail Hitler. Doctor!
-[Goebbels] Bormann! [grunts]
-Welcome to the Wolfsschanze.
-Thank you. Bormann!
-The Führer awaits you.
Good to be seeing him.
He complained
that we chose the most swampy area.
He wants the Air Force
to go mosquito hunting.
[Goebbels laughs]
-[Bormann] He's in a good mood.
-[Goebbels] Very good.
[Hitler]
The war in the East is as good as won.
There will be nothing left of Bolshevism.
Great. my Führer.
However. you caused
quite a shock with this attack.
Your own people were as surprised
as the Russian himself. [chuckles]
Such a 180-degree turn is only possible
due to our tight grip on the press.
And even the smallest bit
of freedom of the press
is the deadliest threat to the state.
In a democracy.
the people elect the head of state.
and advertising can bring
any buffoon to power.
With us. one man decides. The Führer.
Present it like this.
"We beat Stalin to it at the last second."
I will wipe out cities
like Moscow and Saint Petersburg.
I think we should not be
too optimistic at the beginning.
A setback could change the mood.
Don't worry. The enemy is in disarray
and will be destroyed.
Turn on the great
anti-bolshevism campaign.
"The Slavic race is inferior."
Only by force. Stalin succeeded
in forming a state
out of this Slavic rabbit race.
The Jews helped him do it.
We must destroy them.
Therefore. bring back
the anti-Semitic campaign again.
I have prepared everything.
Press. radio and film.
The Eternal Jew is
for the hard-boiled party members.
and Jud Süß cuts through the heart
of the masses and activates their hate.
Himmler has him
presented to the entire SS.
especially before executions.
[solemn music playing on movie]
Drowned. That Jew killed her.
[film projector whirring]
[dramatic orchestral music on movie]
[indistinct chatter]
Beat them to death!
-The Jew has to go.
-That Jew has got to go.
-[man 1] They can hang!
-[man 2] Yes!
I am innocent.
I'm just a poor fool.
Let me have my life. I want to live.
Life is what I want--
[silence]
[Hitler]
Eradicating this plague
is to perform a historic deed
for the whole of humanity.
I'm colossally humane.
It was important for me to see for myself.
Being in charge of life and death.
you need to know what dying looks like.
I'm proud of my men for mastering this.
that they fire hundreds of times.
and reload and reshoot.
even if the Jews scream terribly
and beg for mercy.
The Jews must strip down.
climb into the trenches. onto the corpses.
and lie on top of their predecessors.
"The sardine method" is what we call it.
Children in their mothers' arms
saves ammunition.
-They'll be crushed by the corpses.
-Mm-hmm.
We fire until the guns run hot.
Only then. we change.
Blood and brain matter
get sprayed on my men's clothes.
Some get sick.
They no longer hit properly.
Once in a while. one of them climbs up
the pile of bodies
-shooting people's heads until they pop.
-Mm.
Shooters can drink
all the liquor they want.
The loudspeaker truck is blasting music.
It's heroic what my men are doing.
You have to do it quickly.
It's like a rotten tooth.
[inhales sharply]
The pain is only over once it is out.
I have always predicted
that once I am in power.
the extermination of the Jews
is my most important task.
I have the Jews brought to the East.
and I order all Jews to be exterminated.
This is an honorable… yet difficult task.
We shoot thousands every day.
By the end of the year.
we can barely make half a million.
We are looking for new ways.
We used gas in the mental asylums.
This could be the future.
Do whatever it takes.
Even innocent creatures of nature
like deer and rabbits sometimes
have to be killed to prevent damage.
The Jews are a criminal race.
Liable for two million deaths
in the Great War.
Now hundreds of thousands again.
Nobody tell me I can't do that.
For months. we were unable
to give you the military details.
Now. I can let the cat out of the bag.
In the face of the recent successes.
there is no doubt
that the entire Soviet front
has been destroyed.
This means that the British dream
of a two-front war is over.
The Soviet Union is militarily defeated
with this last mighty blow.
The enemy in the East
is defeated and destroyed.
Hail Hitler. Doctor.
Dietrich is an imbecile
without sense and reason.
It's the biggest propaganda mistake
of the war.
Tough battles are being fought
on the front.
it's clear what the soldiers think
of such gossip.
We're stuck in the mud. Doctor.
Literally stuck in the mud.
[Goebbels]
Yes.
People have already noticed
that there are setbacks.
All the more devastating
is Dietrich's statement.
Propaganda must always
be related to reality.
The mood has plummeted.
The war will last longer than planned.
put it that way.
Global Judaism is waging war against us.
The war is getting harder.
And it's the Jews' fault.
It's a struggle to be or not to be.
Yes.
I'll share this
with the international press.
It will look like our enemies
are going to war for the Jews. then.
This will create discord.
And then I will share it
with the German people.
[suspenseful music]
We will also introduce a Jewish badge.
[woman]
You have no place here!
[Goebbels]
If someone wears the Jewish star…
One of the Jews.
…he is labelled an enemy of the people.
Zack! And you too!
[Goebbels] Anyone who socializes
with him is one of him…
…and must be treated as a Jew.
-[man] It is a shame.
-[train breaks squeaking]
[laughing]
Dear Daddy. you're back.
Now you can see us again.
And you've already guessed.
We're here to congratulate you.
We got all dressed up all the way.
because it's your birthday today.
♪ Daddy is my best comrade ♪
♪ And on this most beautiful day of all ♪
-[laughter continues]
-♪ He is finally all here ♪
♪ So. Daddy. as the years fall ♪
-[eerie music]
-♪ Our song shall now win you over ♪
♪ So listen. Daddy. very closely ♪
♪ Our dear daddy is always so much fun ♪
♪ My daddy is my best comrade ♪
[eerie music continues]
[singing continues]
[eerie music intensifies]
-[chuckles]
-[film projector stops]
My dear children.
you have made me very happy.
Such a beautiful film. Thank you so much.
Thank you. really.
[children chattering]
[Magda chuckles]
Gottschalk killed himself.
With his wife and child.
Those bastards. [inhales. scoffs]
Killing children!
What a bunch of scum.
-The people must not be informed.
-They get wind of a lot of things.
There will be film people
at the funeral. too.
The Jewish star also arouses pity.
-It makes the transports stand out more.
-The German educated class is shit.
Suddenly. they are rediscovering
their sense of humanity for the Jews.
You can't exorcise their mediocrity.
All the Jews have to do
is send an old lady
with a Jewish star across Kurfürstendamm
and the average German forgets
what the Jews did to us.
[Magda]
I get help requests all the time.
An old friend from school
asked for help her with her daughter.
They're Jewish.
And? What did you reply?
She didn't use her first name Sarah.
I reported her.
[video camera whirring]
Pictures like these from the Warsaw ghetto
must never be seen by the public.
We ask a lot of the people.
and that's why we give them
more entertainment in radio and film.
Good mood is essential for war.
[film projector stops]
That's why we're going to increase
the percentage
of entertainment films to 80%.
But in the newsreel.
that's where it gets down to business.
For this. we need
spectacular combat footage.
That's why we're also going
to step up my propaganda units.
[tense music]
In the past. reporters used
to sit behind the fighting troops.
But my reporter. he is a soldier!
He delivers footage
straight from the front.
We need creativity.
Hippler. present the examples.
[Hippler]
Gladly. Mr. Propaganda Minister.
Roll the film!
[patriotic music playing]
You're looking at burning oil towers.
But in reality.
these towers are just models.
[all laugh]
Gentlemen. it's so hot
on the front line in Africa
that you can even fry
a sunny-side-up egg on a tank.
And here you can see that
you have to adjust things occasionally.
[laughter]
This is tanks crossing a river.
[all laugh]
Well. and this is
how the shots were done. [chuckles]
-[all laugh]
-[Goebbels] Very good.
Make use of all the options.
Especially now.
with our soldiers fighting in Stalingrad.
Think about Christmas.
That warms up people's hearts.
That's when we will connect
the soldiers from all fronts
with the homeland in a ring broadcast.
-With their wives. Their mothers.
-[radio announcer] Attention. calling…
Stalingrad. hello?
[man on radio]
Stalingrad here. The front on the Volga…
[Goebbels]
We're bringing them all together.
all over the Reich.
that is bigger than ever before.
[man on radio]
Here's an airfield in southern France.
[Naumann]
We are pushing the limits of technology.
This means 5000 kilometers of cable.
One hundred million radio listeners
in a live broadcast?
-That is risky.
-Then be inventive.
Doesn't matter whether the soldier
is really speaking from Stalingrad.
He could be in Kharkov or in the studio.
And record it in advance.
It's the effect that counts!
[man on radio]
We ask you. comrades.
to sing with us the beautiful old
German Christmas carol. "Silent Night."
Let's all sing it together.
♪ Silent night ♪
-♪ Holy night ♪
-♪ All is calm ♪
-[man on radio] This request
from our comrades
in the south on the Black Sea
is being followed.
all stations are now joining in!
Now they are already singing
at the Arctic Ocean and in Finland.
-[singing continues]
-And now they're singing
in the frontline of Brezkev.
[door closes]
And now we are adding
all the other stations.
Leningrad! Stalingrad!
And now joining us…
France joins the program… Catania.
SENTENCED TO DEATH
IN THE NAME OF THE GERMAN PEOPLE
And Africa.
-And now everyone sings along.
-[singing continues]
Sing together with us all
the old German Christmas carol…
♪ Sleep in heavenly peace ♪
[Hitler]
It is terrible.
Our allies. the Hungarians.
Romanians and Italians. have failed.
Two hundred thousand soldiers
are trapped in Stalingrad.
I have prohibited an escape.
Time to tell the people the truth.
The Luftwaffe leadership
has not kept their promise.
Yes. because Göring has once again
bitten off more than he can chew.
[knock on door]
-Yes?
-[door opens]
It's a call from Stalingrad.
Yes.
-[static]
-[muffled speech]
[places phone receiver]
The Russian army has severely
breached our defense lines.
Our troops are no longer
capable of fighting.
We must tell the truth.
Not until Stalingrad is lost for good.
Then I'll turn it into a hero's song.
We'll only play mourning music
on the radio now.
We'll have three memorial days.
.The newspapers will all
come out with a mourning edge.
Stalingrad must mark
the turning point of our war effort.
[tense music]
What we need now is total war.
Labor service for all women.
Cessation of all non-essential industries.
All civilian life must
be prepared for war.
This way. I can bring you
up to two million new soldiers.
I know what you're thinking. Doctor.
and I agree with you.
I'll assign Lammers. Keitel and Bormann.
But. my Führer--
I don't want to burden you
with the administration of this task.
but you will be
accompanying the committee.
[tense tone]
[patriotic song playing]
He passed me over.
I won't put up with that.
Stalingrad is my chance
to become the second man in the Reich.
I'm going to turn this disaster
into a great wake-up call for war.
We'll start right away.
Turn off that mourning music!
Send in the secretaries.
[switches button off]
-[door opens]
-[Naumann] All right. ladies.
Good afternoon.
[door closes]
-[Naumann] Here.
-Good afternoon. Yes. Sit down. please.
The Sports Palace…
[pens scribbling]
…must look as sober
as a Protestant church.
On the walls.
only the banners of our movement
and a banner. "Total war. shortest war."
We'll turn this into a referendum.
The most representative people
of our nation must be present.
Only the most reliable people. write down.
[soft tense music]
"In front of me sit
rows of German wounded--"
[real Goebbels]
…from the Eastern Front. In between them.
I count 50 bearers of the Oak Leaf
and the Knight's Cross.
Behind them. a block
of men and women of armaments workers.
[real Goebbels]
Soldiers from the fighting Wehrmacht.
-Doctors.
-[real Goebbels] Scientists.
Artists.
My speech must be heard everywhere.
in the Sports Palace. of course.
but also in the radio.
in the newspapers and in the newsreels.
The entire press is prepared.
All papers have your speech
on page one. as instructed.
I will begin… with a eulogy…
-[typewriter clacking]
-…for the fallen of Stalingrad.
I will speak from the bottom of my heart
and with holy sincerity.
We must make it clear to the people
that the West will perish
if we do not take drastic measures now.
As a climax…
…I will ask the people ten questions.
Ten. Like the commandments in the Bible.
What if people don't burst
into an enthusiastic yes?
By then. I will have spoken
for over an hour.
I could let them climb trees.
Helga. Hilde. you may join me
tomorrow at the Sports Palace.
Your father's speech
will go down in history.
I'll ask you all tomorrow.
-[applause]
-Are you prepared to stand
behind the Wehrmacht
and the Führer as the phalanx--
…of the homeland
and to continue this battle--
…with fierce determination--
[Goebbels]
…undeterred by all the vicissitudes--
…of fate until victory is--
…in our hands?
Yes!
[crowd cheering]
I will drive the audience crazy.
I will pull out all the stops.
Let my voice spill over.
I will play the emotional scale
once up and down again.
[chuckles]
Write down. "I ask you--"
Are you determined to follow the Führer
in the fight for victory
through thick and thin.
even under the heaviest personal burdens?
-The answer resounds…
-[all] Yes!
-And then they all shout?
-[all] Führer command and we'll follow.
-Much louder!
-Führer command and we'll follow!
[crowd]
Führer command and we'll follow!
It's best to record it beforehand
and play it for backup.
"The most radical…
The most radical today is radical.
and the most total today is total enough
to achieve victory!"
Naumann. Just a little idea.
[sighing] Listen and see
if you notice anything.
"We will confront the Jewish threat.
if necessary.
with complete and radical eradication…
with… elimination."
[chuckling]
This could be effective.
Yes. The slip of the tongue
is only for the Sports Palace. of course.
-We will leave it out in the newspapers.
-Yes.
[real Goebbels] …if necessary with
complete and radical era-- elimination.
[crowd cheering]
And then…
…I will ask the all-important question.
[suspenseful music]
I ask you. do you want total war?
-[crowd applauding]
-Do you want total war?
[crowd]
Yes!
Do you want it. if necessary.
more total and radical
than we can even imagine today?
And that is why from now on
the watchword is.
"Now. people rise up
and let the storm break loose!"
[real Goebbels] Now. people rise up
and let the storm break loose!
-[crowd cheering]
-[music intensifies]
[guests applauding]
[Goebbels]
Thank you. Thank you.
-Thank you.
-Bravo!
Bravo.
This speech will go down in history
as the most important speech of the war.
Did you notice how people reacted
to the smallest nuances?
The most politically educated audience
you can find.
Had I told them to jump out
of the third floor of Columbus' house.
they would have done it.
[laughter]
Hannibal. Caesar and Napoleon in heaven.
Hannibal says.
"If I had had Stukas in Italy…"
[chuckling]
And Caesar says.
"If I had had tanks in Germania…"
Says Napoleon. "And if I had had Goebbels…
…you wouldn't know to this day
that I lost the Battle of Waterloo!"
[laughter]
[Naumann]
A message from the Führer.
He calls the speech
a first-class propagandistic masterpiece.
Let's hear it for our doctor.
-Cheers!
-Thank you so much.
My doctor. by my side.
Congratulations.
Your speech was the biggest hit.
[applause]
Thank you so much.
Did you see?
There are fantastic comments everywhere.
[Ribbentrop] But the reports all over
the Reich contain criticisms as well.
What do they say in industrial areas?
"Dear. Tommy. fly on.
We're just miners here.
Fly on to Berlin.
they're the ones that yelled yes."
Complainers do complain. [chuckles]
The question is.
why did the Luftwaffe allow
the bombers to reach Berlin at all?
The enemy's superiority is too great.
We all underestimated it.
That's why we need
radical means for total war.
We don't have enough armor material.
The three-member board
is working on solutions.
[Goebbels]
Sand in the gears everywhere.
Your favorite luxury restaurant.
Mr. Reichsmarschall is still open.
even though angry Berliners
have smashed the windows.
[chuckles] I wonder who's behind this.
I resent that. Do you know
what people are saying?
When will the war be over?
When Göring fits Goebbels' pants.
[all laugh]
[laughter continues]
I've fired my maid.
Frontline duty.
What do I need to hear from Helldorf?
That you're lining the party's prominence
with luxury goods that don't have brands.
Let's see Helldorf start with himself.
The war has turned…
…and we can't bring ourselves
to ban horse racing
or close gambling banks.
We can't be so rigorous.
For instance. a beer brewing ban could
cause psychological setbacks in Bavaria.
I know you don't understand
the Bavarian mentality.
[subtle chuckle]
We mustn't make women our enemy either.
You have to give them their beauty care.
You don't usually close yourself off
from female charms.
[Göring chuckles]
In England. many more women
work for the war than here--
Gentlemen. We're already fighting
an all-out. total war.
A race war with the aim
of exterminating the Jews.
[soft tense music]
Foreign newspapers are reporting
more and more of atrocities.
-How is the propaganda reacting to this?
-Not at all.
We cannot really say that we didn't kill
2.5 million Jews. but only 2.3 million.
We've done so much wrong
that we have to win.
I will talk about this with
SS troop leaders and district leaders.
I am talking about the generals.
Those who know
they have burnt all bridges behind them
fight much more unreservedly than those
who still have a place to retreat to.
Then nobody can later say
they didn't know anything.
[Himmler]
Gentlemen…
…I would like to mention
a very difficult subject before you.
It shall be discussed between us.
and yet we will never ever
talk about it in public.
I mean the evacuation of the Jews.
the extermination of the Jewish people.
The extinction of the Jewish people.
I'm sure most of you know what it means
when there are 100 bodies. when there are
500 bodies. or even 1000 bodies.
To have endured this.
And. to have remained decent.
apart from exceptional human weaknesses.
has hardened us.
[turns page]
This is a glorious page of our history
that has never been written
and will never be written.
[muffled eerie tone]
[gunshots]
[Hitler]
By removing the Jew.
I eliminated the danger of the formation
of a revolutionary nucleus in Germany.
Couldn't this have been
solved more humanely?
Officers. we are in a fight to the death.
If our opponents won this fight…
…the German people would be exterminated.
[muted]
[muffled eerie tone]
The question came to us.
what about the women and children?
I've decided to come up
with a very clear solution here. too.
Because I didn't think
I was entitled to exterminate the men.
that is. to let them kill.
and letting their avengers grow up.
in the form of children who take revenge
upon our sons and grandchildren.
The hard decision had to be made
to let these people
disappear from the Earth.
[muffled eerie tone]
-[video camera rolling]
-[men cheering]
[Eva]
I've put this together for the Führer.
But he doesn't want
to watch movies any more.
[door opens]
The British bombed Berlin.
-[film projector stops]
-[soft tense music]
Thousands are dead.
[Magda] Any news from Schwanenwerder?
The children are there!
[switch clicks]
[Hitler]
They hit the city center…
…not the outskirts.
I'll have the children taken away.
Take the consequences.
The generals fail
and Göring still lives
in his fantasy world.
I can't and won't do that.
In times of crisis. the Reichsmarschall
is cold and brutal like no one else.
Don't take the air raids so dramatically.
Most cities are poorly laid out and musty.
We'll get space for something new.
I'll have 800.000 Berliners evacuated.
But I beg you. my Führer.
speak to the people.
[Hitler]
I'll speak after the victory.
It's five minutes to midnight.
We need a peace treaty.
The British and the Americans
are on the verge of invasion.
Drive the enemy forces back into the sea.
Our engineers are working very hard
on the miracle weapon.
[Goebbels]
Listen.
It's not about personal ambition.
But I am capable
of recruiting one million soldiers--
When things get more serious.
I resort to abnormal means. Not before!
[suspenseful music]
You don't need a General Keitel.
What you need is a General Gneisenau.
In 1813. at Kolberg. he stood up
to the French in a desperate situation.
I will use this material
to make the greatest film ever made.
Very good.
That's your forte. Doctor. Propaganda!
Harlan is the right director
for this story.
Soon 20 million will have seen Jud Süß.
I have empowered Harlan to seek help
from the Wehrmacht. state and party.
For this propaganda war.
we will need
thousands of soldiers as extras.
As long as you leave me
a few more for the real war.
In the beginning.
we propagandists worked for the army.
and now the army is working for us.
I already have the big speeches
for the movie in my head.
Let's hear it.
"No love is more sacred
than the love of one's country."
No joy is sweeter than the joy of freedom.
"You know what we will face
if we don't win this battle with honor."
Whatever sacrifices
are demanded of the individual--
…they do not outweigh
the sacred values for which we fight--
…and must win.
-[siren blaring]
-[men murmuring]
You won't want to be
worse than your fathers.
Dare to be like them.
You have their example.
now set an example too!
-[siren intensifies]
-[explosions]
[airplane flying past]
[eerie tense music]
[Helldorf]
Doctor. everything is destroyed.
[exhales] The government district.
the memorial church. the zoo.
Thousands of deaths.
We have to put the party
at the center of all of our actions.
Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
We'll do everything we can
to help you as soon as possible.
-First. you need to eat and drink.
-[man] Thank you.
If the destroyed living space
causes concern.
we will say that the Führer will build
six million new houses after the war.
When you hear that the Party
is avoiding the frontline
we spread the word
that 95% of all HJ leaders
and 68% of all SA men
are serving in the Wehrmacht.
Minister. if I may ask.
do you think this will be enough?
The party is criticized openly.
People say it can't go on like this.
I'm going to form an organization
that will oppose defeatists
with brute force.
Operation B.
In Berlin. I will have
3000 activists deployed.
In teams of three.
they confront anyone
who says anything against the leadership.
How dare you?
Minister. I have an important message
from the Führer's headquarters.
[tense tone]
-[Goebbels] How is he?
-[Bormann] He has minor burns and bruises.
He is glad that you quickly made clear
that he survived the attack.
Hail Hitler.
I was flung away.
Everything was on fire.
I tried to get out of there.
Keitel came towards me.
He threw himself into my arms crying
and shouted. "My Führer. you're alive!"
Korten is dead. So is Brandt.
Schmundt is dying.
They were the most loyal.
Did you hear the news?
-Helldorf was in on it. too.
-[Hitler] What?
That scoundrel.
I've paid his debts at least five times.
I'll have them all killed. All of them!
[melancholic tense music]
But I survived.
Destiny has confirmed my mission.
[Goebbels]
You work under the hand of God.
Fate has chosen you
to bring our cause to a happy end.
You're right. Doctor.
Something needs to change fundamentally.
I've decided to honor your wishes.
I will make you Plenipotentiary
of the Reich for an all-out war effort.
Now I have dictatorial power.
I'm the first man after the Führer.
No one will dare plot against me anymore.
I affirm National Socialism.
[typewriter clacking]
Just as I understood it at the beginning.
I can no longer condone
what is happening today.
In the absence of a way out.
everything adheres
to the one single. fanatical will.
Unfortunately. personified by Goebbels.
[sighs] It's disgusting to watch.
Where this treacherous dwarf--
[Bormann] "…makes an appearance.
people flock together
and feel impressed
by a handshake or an autograph."
Even the culprit Stauffenberg
is not as condemnable as Helldorf.
We gave him all the advantages.
I've come up with something
very special for Helldorf.
He has to attend three executions
before he gets his turn.
Show me the film.
I want to see everything.
[film projector whirring]
[subtle eerie tone]
[clattering on movie]
[gentle song playing on phonograph]
[knock on door]
[Magda]
Yes?
[man]
The Führer is here.
[Magda]
My Führer.
It is an honor that you have accepted
the invitation.
You look beautiful. Magda.
I'm sorry. These are the best I could get.
Your husband closed the flower shops.
[Magda chuckles]
Ah! [chuckles]
We're happy that you're here.
Uncle Führer.
My family. Mm.
[chuckles]
The girls are real ladies.
Very elegant. like their mother.
Helmut. [chuckles]
You're already a real young man.
aren't you? [chuckles]
He recently wrote an essay about the war.
Helmut. would you please
read it to the Führer?
"The Jews forced the war on us.
Because the German people
have too little space.
we need more habitat in the East."
You copied that from Dad.
No. Daddy copied it from me.
[Hitler laughs]
He's a marvelous boy.
What else do you know about war?
The German people
have never won a war on two fronts.
[song continues playing on phonograph]
But they will never give up.
Never.
[Magda]
My Führer.
It is a sign of weakness
trying to contact Stalin now. Doctor.
The enemy knows how weak we are.
If the people are so weak.
they deserve to fall.
Let them be destroyed.
I will destroy the foundation it needs
for its most primitive survival.
[unbuckling bag]
We now have
to scrape together what's there.
even if it's women.
There are so many women who want to shoot.
If we take them to the second line.
the men won't run away.
I don't know the concept of surrender.
I'm a man who's worked
his way up from nothing.
I have been… [exhales]
…living away from the world
for over four and a half years.
[liquid pouring]
I haven't been to the theater.
in a concert or a film.
I live only for the fight.
And it can only be won
with my iron willpower.
[coughs]
We're with you. no matter what.
I will give the German people…
…a great victory.
And I will speak on the radio.
Finally!
For far too long. I had to do
without my biggest weapon.
My Führer. I congratulate you on this.
The one who settles up with life…
…usually wins.
We do not let go.
Better to be buried under rubble
than to surrender.
[gunshots on movie]
[man on movie] Better to be buried
under rubble than to surrender.
We won't let go. [chuckles]
They'll have to cut off our hands
or beat us to death.
One by one.
[Goebbels]
We won't let go.
It's better to be buried
under rubble than to surrender.
You are here today.
on the 12th anniversary
of the takeover of power.
witnessing the world premiere
of a cinematic masterpiece.
You. the homeland…
…and the soldiers at the front
in the trapped fortress of La Rochelle.
[film projector whirring]
It's been two years since I commissioned
Professor Harlan to make this major film
and to create an artistic homage
to the unshakable steadfastness
of this people.
The greatest… is always born out of pain.
If a man takes all the pain
upon himself… then…
…he is great.
[patriotic song]
Now. people. stand up!
-And--
-…a storm breaks loose!
♪ The people rise up! ♪
-[explosions]
-[song concludes]
[melancholic music]
[indistinct clamoring]
I will have shot anyone
who does not provide resistance.
[Naumann]
There is nothing but bad news.
Kolberg could not be kept.
Nobody can find out.
That would have consequences
for the Kolberg film.
[Naumann]
One more thing.
It seems the fortress La Rochelle…
…is handed over without a fight.
Fuel the abomination propaganda!
Russians rape women. kill children.
I have set up a resistance organization
for the enemy-occupied territories.
A werewolf.
-But there isn't hardly any resistance.
-Then we'll pretend there is.
[tense tone]
[eerie music]
[Goebbels]
You should have seen
how everyone wanted to leave as quickly
as possible on the Führer's birthday.
Congratulations.
[Goebbels]
But I have again reminded the people
of the historical importance
of the Führer.
If Germany is still alive today.
if Europe. and with it. the Western world.
with its culture and civilization.
has not yet completely sunk
into the dark maelstrom of the dark abyss…
…you have him alone to thank for this.
Because he will be
the man of this century.
Is there any hope?
The magic bullet?
It is no good.
The Führer overestimates our powers.
It seems as if he is already…
…living in the clouds.
But how often has he descended to us
like a deus ex machina?
And what if not this time?
Then we will die.
All of us.
We will go down in history with him.
Glad you're here. Doctor.
[music continues]
All is lost.
[door closes]
My generals have betrayed me.
I have conquered all of Europe.
And now the Russians are in Berlin.
[inhales sharply] I will not fight.
Too great a danger I might fall
into Russians hands alive
and they'll commit crimes against my body.
It will be easy
to leave this agonizing existence.
One short moment. and I will be free.
We won't give up.
-I'll send for Magda and the children.
-You know I don't think that's right.
But it's admirable.
We will fight until the end.
Here is the first edition of our new paper
for the defenders of Greater Berlin.
We still do propaganda from the bunker.
[sighs]
If only everyone
was cut from your cloth. Doctor.
The war is lost.
The future belongs
to the stronger people of the East.
To the German people…
…I don't shed a tear.
The Führer didn't force himself.
You chose him.
And now… God be with you.
How about you. gentlemen?
Why did you work for me?
Now… your pretty little neck will be cut.
-[door opens]
-Kids. have you packed?
Uncle Führer is waiting.
-Everyone just one toy.
-[real Goebbels] Defenders of Berlin!
The eyes of your wives. your mothers
and your children are on you.
I will of course remain in Berlin
with my employees.
my wife and children are also here
and will stay here.
I will defend the imperial capital
with all means at my disposal.
The Mongol storm will and must be broken
at the walls of our city.
[Goebbels] You have to take the view
of Frederick the Great.
He imagined himself on a distant star.
[tense music]
From above. events on our planet
seem insignificant.
Frederick the Great had no children.
Neither does the Führer.
Look around. Magda.
Our world is falling apart.
The Russians are in Berlin
and have discovered
our death camps in the East.
The Americans are in Buchenwald.
You know what I think.
We have done so much.
-We can't disappear.
-Joseph. it's all been discussed.
I am sure of it. I will do it.
I'm proud of you.
[music intensifies]
[siren blaring at a distance]
[music concludes]
[melancholic music]
[radio announcer in English]
This is London calling.
Here is a newsflash.
The German radio has just announced
that Hitler is dead.
I'll repeat that.
The German radio has just announced
that Hitler is dead.
[melancholic music]
[sighs]
[in German] I survived.
I can speak for those
who cannot speak.
I speak not only for the six million Jews…
…but for all the people
who were killed back then.
People have to respect people.
We're all the same.
We all come to this world the same.
That's why it is not understandable
that so many people
were prepared to kill other people.
instead of recognizing them
as human beings.
Be human!
That's the most important thing.
[subtle emotive music]